Alaska Airlines (AS)
American Airlines (AA)
Delta Air Lines (DL)
ExpressJet Airlines (EV)
Frontier Airlines (F9)
Hawaiian Airlines (HA)
JetBlue Airways (B6)
SkyWest Airlines (OO)
Southwest Airlines (WN)
Spirit Airlines (NK)
United Airlines (UA)
Virgin America (VX)

Air Carrier: The cause of the cancellation or delay was due to circumstances within the airline's control (e.g. maintenance or crew problems, aircraft cleaning, baggage loading, fueling, etc.).
Extreme Weather: Significant meteorological conditions (actual or forecasted) that, in the judgment of the carrier, delays or prevents the operation of a flight such as tornado, blizzard or hurricane.
National Aviation System (NAS): Delays and cancellations attributable to the national aviation system that refer to a broad set of conditions, such as non-extreme weather conditions, airport operations, heavy traffic volume, and air traffic control.
Late-arriving aircraft: A previous flight with same aircraft arrived late, causing the present flight to depart late.
Security: Delays or cancellations caused by evacuation of a terminal or concourse, re-boarding of aircraft because of security breach, inoperative screening equipment and/or long lines in excess of 29 minutes at screening areas.

Jan. 2006: US Airways (US) and America West (HP) start to report jointly as US Airways (US).
Jan. 2010: Delta (DL) and Northwest (NW) start to report jointly as Delta (DL).
Jan. 2012: United (UA) and Continental (CO) start to report jointly as United (UA).
Jan. 2012: Atlantic Southeast (EV) and ExpressJet (XE) start to report jointly as ExpressJet (EV), presented here as ExpressJet Combined (E*). 
For data through Dec. 31, 2011, use the code EV for Atlantic Southeast and the code XE for ExpressJet. 
Beginning with January 1, 2012 data, use the code E* for ExpressJet Combined. Searches for EV or XE will find data for the period ending Dec. 31, 2011 only. Searches for E* will find data for the period beginning Jan. 1, 2012 only.
Aug. 2013: Pinnacle (9E) changed name to Endeavor.
Apr. 2014: American Eagle (MQ) changed name to Envoy.
Jan. 2015: Southwest (WN) and AirTran (FL) start to report jointly as Southwest (WN).
Jul. 2015: American (AA) and US Airways (US) start to report jointly as American (AA).

What do you notice in the visualization?
What questions do you have about the data?
What relationships do you notice?
What do you think is the main takeaway from this visualization?
Is there something you don’t understand in the graphic?